You're just a lowly excon and I'm a big
shot lawyer.
>> God, frown? How are they going to know
you're mad if you don't frown? More,
more, more. Damn it. You want me to put
something nasty in your mouth to help
you frown?
>> Okay, continue.
>> Well, at least I have Jesus and a strong
love of a black African, beautiful,
independent black woman.
>> Cut. This isn't working. I cannot work
like this anymore. I've worked with
Jesus.
>> Damn it, Chickf.
>> Let us pray. Jesus. Holy Jesus, help us
with this scene. It seems to be a little
flat. Wait, Jesus is trying to tell me
something. Hold on.
>> Praise Jesus.
>> Yes, Jesus. Uh-huh. Right. Right. You're
the boss. Jesus says the scene would
have more impact if you grabbed the M
dukes and kissed her deep on the lips.
>> Kiss? Hold on. Jesus said that. Jesus
said that we need to kiss passionately
so the audience can feel our love.
Change it in the script.
>> Praise Jesus rewrite.
>> Are you sure he didn't say kick? I
should kick you or made to kill. Let me
kill you. Nobody ever see that coming.
>> No, he said kiss. Kiss. There was no
ambiguity at all. Chapstick.
The Boondocks episode pause aired on
June 20th, 2010. what would become one
of its most controversial and eerily
prophetic episodes. Beneath its
irreverent humor and cartoon
exaggeration lay something far more
sobering. A scathing critique of power,
hypocrisy, and exploitation in black
media. At its center was a parody that
hit too close to home. A flamboyant
cross-dressing Christian playwright
named Winston Jerome, a thinly veiled
stand-in for Tyler Perry.
Now wait just one [__] minute. Who
this?
>> You better tell me who the hell up in my
house before I get the captain. I ain't
lying.
>> My dukes. This is Jesse. He's my new
friend.
>> New friend, huh? Does that mean he
beating up the chick? That's what new
friend mean to me. Hold on. Hey, Jamal.
>> Yes, my dude.
>> I just had to slap the [__] out of
somebody for no reason. Now, what was it
you were trying to say about your
special friend? His name is Jesse and
he's a good Christian man with benefits.
>> Benefits? Shoot, girl. Why didn't you
say so?
>> Good morning, team. Hell, you can get me
for no extra charge. Oh, honey, this
booty is still good. You can go ahead
and check the expiration date on it. I
ain't lying.
[Music]
[Applause]
>> Why are we watching a Winston Jerome
play?
>> Ah, shut up, boy. Stop hating. It just
so happens Winston Jerome is holding an
open casting call for the Beanie Man in
his new play and I ain't preparing for
my audition.
>> Audition? Like an acting audition?
>> The acting audition of a lifetime.
>> But you don't act.
>> Don't act. Your granddaddy was once a
passionate, dedicated. Oh, but this was
long before the days of Terence Howard.
See, Hollywood didn't have room for a
young, handsome, light-skinned black man
with good hair in those days.
>> And action. They call me Mr. P.
>> What's so funny? Mr. P. Is the soda's
name?
>> Oh, is it ribs? They call me Mr. Ribs.
>> He is so bad.
>> [__] Mr. Handyman.
>> Oh, my foot. My foot. Oh, crap. Craping
real bad. Maybe you like to see a real
man. I bet you dare blade. Dreaming you
had a real man. I pity the fool.
>> Thank you. That's enough for you.
>> Thank you for the opportunity.
>> Breaking into Hollywood at your age.
He's looking for mature men. See, look
right here. Casting for a black leading
man, 50 and older, lightkinn, good hair,
must look nice, shirtless, and not
allergic to baby oil. That's me all day.
>> Don't you ever think you're too old to
do some of that stuff you do?
>> Why can't I be a sex symbol? Why can't I
be a heartthrob?
>> I say do it before it's too late. And
it's going to be too late real soon. So,
uh, yeah, hurry up.
>> Thank you, Riley. I'm going to really
let him have it. Show him my stuff. Give
that man everything I got.
>> Pause.
>> Pause. Pause. What?
>> You said something gay. So you got to
say no homo or else you a homo.
>> But what did I say gay?
>> You said you was going to give this dude
everything you got. No homo.
>> That's not gay. I said I was going to
give the man everything I got.
>> Pause, Grandad. If it sound gay, it's
gay. And you got to say no homo. How I
know you're not a homo, granddad, if you
don't say no homo.
>> I'm not saying no homo.
>> Okay. You want to be a homo?
>> Stop calling your granddaddy a homo.
>> Then say no homo.
>> I don't want to say no homo. I'mma homo
your ass if you don't stop saying pause.
>> Pause.
In the episode, Granddad is seduced by
the promise of stardom. He's whisked
away to a secluded theater compound to
audition for Jerome's next production,
only to find himself subjected to
increasingly bizarre, humiliating
rehearsals and thinly disguised sexual
advances. At one point, Jerome drops all
pretense and bluntly asks, "Can I please
just have some ass?" When granddad in
disbelief asks if the whole charade, the
Christian messages, the plays, the
cult-like compound was just a ruse to
sleep with men, Jerome replies without
hesitation, "Pretty much, yeah, the
comedy was sharp. The message even
sharper. And in the eyes of many, it was
too sharp." At the time, Tyler Perry was
not just a celebrity, he was an
institution. With two hit shows on
Turner networks, and a string of box
office successes, Perry had built a
billion-dollar empire rooted in
Christian values, familyoriented
messaging, and stories of black
resilience. But the boondocks dared to
ask, "What happens when that image
becomes a mask?" When power cloaked in
piety turns predatory. Shortly after the
episode aired, rumors swirled that Perry
reached out directly to Turner
executives, threatening to cut ties
unless the episode was pulled. The
episode vanished from rotation after a
single rerun, buried without
explanation. Officially, there was no
lawsuit, no firings. But for fans, the
message was clear. Someone with power
didn't want the story told. Pause would
remain hidden for nearly a decade, only
resurfacing in a 2020 marathon of
controversial boondocks episodes.
Beneath the jokes and over-the-top
satire, Paws offered a scalding
commentary on several uncomfortable
truths. The typical Winston Jerome story
starts with a beautiful, educated,
professional black woman trapped in a
troubled marriage with a brownkinned
bald dude from Law and Order.
>> How can you do this to me?
>> Get out. I'm going to marry this white
huset because you are too virtuous and
strong and might make me a better man.
>> Then a dude who looks like Shaman Moore
shows up as the shirtless light-skinned
gardener who just got out of jail.
>> Excuse me. Uh, may I rake your leaves?
>> At first, she acts like she doesn't like
the light-skinned gardener, but
eventually she gets to know him and sees
a sensitive side. Now, I know that to
you, I'm just a poor light-skinned
gardener who can't even afford a shirt.
But I love me some Jesus, and I love me
some you.
>> Oh, Lord, thank you, Jesus. I never
thought I'd ever be with a man so loving
and light-skinned.
>> And I will always be light-skinned just
for you.
>> Being a good Christian woman, she gives
a marriage one last chance because Jesus
said so.
>> I am dark-kinned and bald, so I hate you
and I hate Jesus. And
>> just when the brownkinned dude from Law
and Order is about to hit her, here
comes the shirtless garden. Hold it
right there, baldheaded dude from Law
and Order.
>> The woman in the gardener kiss true love
through Jesus.
[Applause]
>> The play within the episode mirrors
Perry's recurring tropes. The angry
dark-kinned husband, the suffering wife,
the light-skinned Jesusloving savior,
all overseen by a gun toading,
god-fearing grandma, Ma Dukes, Huy, ever
the voice of reason calls the script
terrible, critiquing how predictable and
damaging such depictions had become.
Winston Jerome doesn't just run a
theater company. He runs a cult. Actors
are cut off from their families. Prayer
circles double as loyalty tests.
Everything is done in the name of Jesus.
But behind the scenes, it's about
control, manipulation, and sexual
access. Granddad is offered it all.
Fame, wealth, even white women if he
just goes along. The moment he resists,
Jerome tries to buy his compliance
outright. And when that doesn't work,
the mass slips completely. For many
viewers, it was shocking. For others, it
was validating, a satirical reflection
of the whispers and rumors that had
circulated in the black entertainment
world for years. 15 years later, the
satire suddenly felt less like a
punchline and more like a prophecy. In
June 2025, actor Derek Dixon filed a
$260 million lawsuit against Tyler
Perry, alleging years of sexual
harassment, assault, and professional
retaliation. Dixon claimed Perry dangled
career opportunities, including show
roles and promises to produce his own
pilot before making unwanted sexual
advances. When Dixon refused, Perry
allegedly threatened to kill off his
character, groped him on set, and
continued his behavior on private trips
and at home. The trauma, Dixon said, led
him to leave the show The Oval, lose
over $400,000 in income, and suffer from
severe anxiety.
>> Which role you want this, please?
>> Oh, no. No. You You can't get hurt, cuz
I didn't think there'll be this many
people here just for a play. Just a
play. Let me tell you something. It
starts with the play. But if you like
you in the play, now you in the movie or
the play. And if you like you in the
movie or the play, now you in the TV
spin-off or the movie or the play?
>> Wait a minute. You're Kadine Herson.
Star of TV's a different world. What are
you doing here?
>> I don't know if you know this, but there
ain't exactly a bunch of other [__] we
could be doing right now. I mean, what?
I'm supposed to wait for the next Aquila
and the be to pay my mortgage? Huh? No
thanks.
pants like this.
>> Mhm.
>> Mr. Jerome would like to see you.
>> He would.
>> You won't be needing that shirt.
>> What do you want him?
>> Jesus told me in my next play, Marduk
should find herself a man. So, I've
decided to call this play Marduk's finds
herself a man. Do you think you're man
enough for Ma Dukes, Robert?
>> Yeah, I think so. Yes.
>> Try this line. Muks, you are a strong,
intelligent black woman who will make me
a better man.
>> Muk,
>> wait. Wait. Something's off.
Lotion.
>> What flavor you want me? I got tropical
peach, sunrise orange, minty mango, and
apricot. Or I can just take two flavors
and swirl them together. Just tell me
which ones you like.
>> You want me to pick one for you?
>> Uh, okay.
>> Minty mango it is.
Turn around. Hey,
>> you want me to pop these bumps? Uh,
>> no.
>> All right, you good then? Okay, Robert.
Again,
my do.
>> That's it. Breathtaking.
>> You know, I remember when I sat down to
write my first play, I asked Jesus,
"Will you co-write with me?" And he
said, "Yes." And I told Jesus, "I want
to write plays for women. What do women
want to see?" And Jesus said, "Sexy
men." Since that day, I've searched the
world for the sexiest black men alive.
And I found them. My shirtless men. And
Jesus was pleased.
>> Why didn't no religion work like that?
>> Then I asked Jesus, "How can I further
spread your message on earth?" And he
said, "Crossdressing."
And so I put on a dress and a wig. And
Jesus was pleased. With that dress, that
wig and these beautiful muscular gifts
from God. I have built an empire. And
soon I will crush Ice Cube and my
supremacy of black Hollywood will be
complete.
>> Ice Cube, we don't allow just anyone on
this journey. Have you accepted Jesus
Christ as your Lord and Savior, Robert?
>> Yeah. Uh, I guess.
>> Get on your knees, Robert. Ow. On your
knees, Robert.
>> Okay. Damn, you got big hands.
>> Do you accept Jesus Christ as your Lord
and Savior, Robert?
>> Yes.
>> Do you accept me, Winston Jerome, as the
representative of Jesus Christ in the TV
and movie business?
>> Sure, I guess.
>> Do you renounce Ice Cube and all his
works?
>> Well, you know, I kind of like Friday.
>> Do you renounce Ice Cube and all his
works?
>> I renounce Ice Cube.
>> Louder.
>> I renounce ice cube
>> and all his works.
>> And all his work,
>> including Friday.
>> Yes. Including Friday. Yes. Rise. Rise.
My new leading man.
>> We're having a fond shindig at the
compound tonight. You should come.
Perry denies all of it. His legal team
has dismissed the lawsuit as a
shakedown, a fabrication designed to
extort a powerful man. But the details,
the alleged quidd proquo, the isolation,
the psychological coercion, bear uncanny
resemblance to pause. The satire had
written itself years earlier. Even more
revealing are Perry's public comments
outside the lawsuit. In a 2025 podcast
interview, he bragged about firing his
own aunt after she failed to show up for
a job he'd given her and described how
after his mother's death, he sent
letters to relatives warning them to get
jobs within 60 days or lose his
financial support.
>> I fired my aunt.
>> I I feel him.
>> I fired my aunt. She She was She said
she wanted a job. She was she was she
would always call asking for money ask
for money like okay I was sending the
money I'm like listen I want to help you
I don't want to help you build this
thing not not be welfare to you so let
me give you a job she was wasn't coming
in calling in all the time she okay well
you got to go cuz cuz you want me to
hand you the money but you don't want to
work for it see that doesn't that
doesn't work for me and it's the same
way with my son like he's 10 years old
like there are certain things that he
wants he has to do chores and work for
it I don't I don't believe in giving us
things that are just going to handicap
us that is the worst thing you can can
do. And I've had family members that
I've done that to because my mother has
asked me to. And when she passed away in
2009, I sent all of them letters saying,
"Listen, you got 60 days to become
gainfully employed because I'm not going
to keep supporting you like this." Are
you serious?
>> 100%. They all got jobs.
>> These anecdotes might seem personal,
even motivational to some, but they also
reflect a darker pattern. The use of
money and influence to control
relationships. A behavior known in abuse
context as economic manipulation. What
does it mean when someone can pull an
episode off the air just by making a
phone call? When a satire that
challenges a public figure's image is
deemed too dangerous to air. It's not
just about censorship. It's about
gatekeeping. The invisible hand that
decides which stories are told and which
are buried. Perry's ability to silence
criticism, even if briefly, points to
the immense power held by media moguls,
especially in black entertainment, where
so few have reached his level. And that
power creates an uncomfortable tension.
Tyler Perry has given jobs to hundreds
of black actors. He's built studios,
funded scholarships, and shaped a space
where black stories could thrive. But
his critics argue he's also recycled
damaging stereotypes, promoted colorism,
and relied on trauma as spectacle. Even
Spike Lee once critiqued Perry's work as
coonery buffoonery, igniting a yearslong
cultural debate. The pause episode
didn't just poke fun. It questioned
whether Perry's moral persona was built
on the backs of exploited workers and
tired tropes. And the backlash it
receives suggests that satire, when too
precise, stops being funny and starts
being threatening. Now in 2025, the
lines between fiction and reality have
blurred. Was Pause just a cartoon
episode, or was it a warning we ignored?
The story of a powerful man hiding
behind faith to coers subordinates used
to seem ridiculous until it didn't. The
image of a self-proclaimed Christian
hero offering fame for sex used to be
parody. Now it's in court filings. And
the depiction of a cult-like compound
manipulating actors, that's no longer
just animation. It's a reflection of
lived experiences. To be clear, these
are still allegations. Courts will
decide what's true. But in the court of
public opinion, the questions go far
beyond Tyler Perry. They reach into the
heart of what kind of power we celebrate
and at what cost.
>> Oh, thanks for agreeing to watch the
boys tonight. No problem, Robert. I
mean, this is your big break. So, what
is he like?
>> Who? Winston? Uh, nice guy. Down to
earth. Nothing strange or freaky or
bizarre about him at all? Nope. Nothing
out of the ordinary.
I just think he's the best. That's what
people need more of. Positive
entertainment without all the cursing
and people saying the n-word all the
time. Hey, are there going to be some
steamy scenes to look forward to? Huh?
Who's the lucky leading lady?
>> Uh, actually, um, they haven't cast her
yet. Probably uh SA Leam, maybe Hala
Berry, you know, somebody hot.
>> Man, stop lying. Granddad's leading lady
is a dude.
>> What? Shut up, boy. You don't know
nothing.
>> We read the script, Grandad.
>> How dare you read that script? That's
top secret.
>> It was really, really terrible. By the
way, don't front, Grandad. You playing a
dude's boyfriend. It's that Winston
Jerome guy in a dress, huh?
>> You mean Ma Dukes? You're playing Ma
Dukes's boyfriend?
>> There are no love scene.
>> Grandad's going to need to have no homo
tattooed on his forehead after this.
>> There are no love scene. I think that's
great. Robert, you're a real actor now.
Completely dedicated to the part. I say
do the love scene.
>> But there are no love scenes.
>> Well, I think it's gay. Do wear a dress.
>> Jesus told him to wear that dress. You
just mad cuz Jesus doesn't love you.
>> Tyler Perry has become one of the most
influential and polarizing of names in
modern black entertainment. He rose from
homelessness to a billion-dollar empire
built on stories that center black lives
in a way Hollywood never had before. But
behind the praise and prestige, a darker
story has begun to unfold. One filled
with accusations, broken relationships,
and the lingering question of whether
his climb came at the cost of others
being left behind. Tyler Perry is widely
recognized for taking full creative
control of his work, writing, directing,
producing, and frequently acting in his
own projects. While many admire this as
a mark of brilliance and determination,
others view it as a reluctance to
collaborate or give others a seat at the
table. After House of Pain became a hit,
Perry launched Meet the Browns with a
writing staff. When four of those
writers asked for union contracts, a
standard in Hollywood, they were fired.
The Writers Guild of America accused
Perry of union busting and negotiating
in bad faith. For many, it was a
chilling reminder that no amount of
success protects you from being
disposable, and Perry's control wasn't
just behind the scenes. Oscar-winning
actress Mo'Nique, who gave a searing
performance in Precious, claimed she was
promised extra pay and that Perry
personally agreed to make it right. But
years later, she says that promise was
never fulfilled. "I'm still waiting,"
she told Vulture in 2025. Her voice
tinged with both sadness and exhaustion.
A private recording allegedly captures
Perry admitting the debt, but the check
never came. "These stories reflect a
pattern. When black artists, especially
women, ask for fair treatment, they risk
being labeled difficult. And in a
business where relationships make or
break careers, silence can feel like
survival.
>> This is what I want to get to.
>> I want you to get to it.
>> A lot of this happened with the movie
Precious. That's the movie that made
Mo'Nique a star among star. She shine
the brightest because you played that
role. Nobody else could have did that
role justice, Mo. Thank you, baby.
>> Nobody. You played it. And I remember
walking out the movie and I called my
sister. I said, "She going to win the
Academy Award for that role."
>> I said, "It's almost like she was born
and to play that role."
Now, now tell me if I'm wrong.
>> Okay.
>> Okay. You shoot a movie.
>> Yes.
>> The movie rap. You might have to come
back and do some voice over, some some
here, some touch-up work here or there.
>> Yes. that's already scripted into the
contract. Now, the promotion aspect of
the contract, what were you contracted
to do? Because that seems to be where
the the conflict seems to come in. Yes.
Because you was like, "Okay, what?" So,
tell the people that's going to watch
this and listen to this. What was
Mo'Nique contractually obligated to do
as far as the promotional aspect of
Precious?
I was contractually obligated to promote
the movie Precious under Lee Daniels
Productions.
>> Okay?
>> I promoted Precious under Lee Daniels
Productions. I did Oprah. I did
magazines. I did TV shows. I did all of
promotions I was contractually
obligated to do.
>> Okay,
>> that was it.
>> That was it.
>> I'm done with it.
>> Done.
>> Okay. Now, Precious is going to Can
>> Right. Mhm.
>> At the time I have the Monique show.
>> I am on the Spread the Love tour. I have
toddler babies and I'm also a wife.
>> Mhm.
>> Okay.
>> Mon'nique. The Mon'nique show is like
down for maybe a couple days, a week or
so.
>> Right.
>> I got some days off on the tour. I'm
going to relax with my family.
>> Because once they sold the movie,
>> right?
>> You didn't sell me,
>> Whoopy Goldberg.
See, Whoopi Goldberg said I could have
schooled you and told you what was
expected
when I didn't promote and go overseas.
And you know how you just looked up and
looked away?
>> Yeah.
>> Whoopy Goldberg, what you were saying to
me, I could have schooled you and told
you you going in that house and let them
have their way with you,
>> right?
>> And I'll be here when you come back.
>> So after I'm done with my promotions,
Lion's Gate reaches out to my husband.
Mhm.
>> Initially, they think they're talking to
my attorney, right?
>> And they say, "We want Mo'Nique to come
to Can
>> to She promoted so well in the United
States. We want her to go international
and promote the movie and do can."
>> Okay.
>> I tell my husband, "Please let them know
I respectfully decline. I appreciate it,
>> but I respectfully decline. I'm going to
spend some time at home."
>> Right.
>> Lionsgate calls back.
We really would like for Mo'Nique to
come to Can promote this movie.
>> Please let them know I respectfully
decline. I'm gonna spend time with my
family.
>> Lionsgate calls back and says, "What is
it going to take for us to get Mon'nique
to come to can? We'll give her another
week in France. We'll upgrade her room."
My husband said, "Is there a dollar
amount attached to what you're asking
for?" Oh, we we will never pay anyone to
promote a film. Never. He said, "We
understand, and we're never going to
work for free. You're asking her to do
something that she's not obligated to
do." Correct. Well, what is this? The
attorney? He said, "Actually, I'm her
manager and I and her husband."
>> Now, we can put it on the husband's
being difficult. Right. Right. Okay. So,
I don't owe anybody anything. That's why
I was never sued. Now, we go to the
hoodie awards. Tyler Perry is there.
Okay.
>> Tyler Perry calls me in his room.
>> Now, when I go into Tyler Perry's room,
his staff is in there. Now, you ready to
holler laughing? Yes.
>> Okay. I take my security in there with
me cuz I always want to have somebody
with me. Right. Right. Tyler Perry does
this.
>> And the people scattered. They all left
out the room. I said, "Look at this [__]
right here. You saw me." And they all
scattered.
>> That wasn't the lights. That's for the
people. You know, light lights on.
lights off cuz they got their asses up
out of there. Okay.
>> Okay. Okay.
>> So, at the time my security looked at
me. I said, "You don't work for Tyler
Perry.
>> You could."
>> Touche.
>> So, Tyler Perry says to me, "Listen,
Mon'nique, we really need you to, you
know, promote this film because if you
get nominated for the Oscar, your next
movie is going to be 3 to5 million. If
you win it, your next movie is 6 to8
million." I said, "Tyler Perry, who you
talking to? I'm a black woman. When are
they going to pay that kind of No, I'm
telling you that's what it is. And and
and if you just go and promote it, I
said, listen, brother,
>> you can pay me to promote it." Because
at the time now him and Oprah producers
on the film, right?
>> I said, "You can pay me to do it. I
don't care where the check come from,
but y'all just got to pay the money."
>> He said, "I'm not in the habit of giving
out money for free." I said, "And I'm
not in the habit of working for free,
but you gave TD Jake a check for a
million dollars." But that's another
story and I'm back. So when he then says
that, it's like, listen, we both
mutually agree. You don't give out free
money. I don't work for free. We hug,
Shannon.
>> When we were done talking, we hugged. Do
you hear me?
>> Yes.
>> We hugged like brother and sister. Like
it's cool. He understand, right? Okay.
Oprah Winfrey calls my husband
I want y'all to take your time cuz I'm
getting ready going.
>> Yeah, you that's your camera right
there.
>> Yeah, cuz the people at home, they
sitting there like, "Money, what
happened?" [__] I'm getting ready to
take. She calls my husband.
>> Okay.
>> My husband explains to her what's going
on. She says, "There have been times
I've had to draw the line in the sand."
So my husband said, "Well, what is
different between you and Mon'nique?
You've got to draw the line in your sand
when you know they're asking you for too
much." She said, "You're absolutely
right, and I understand your position."
>> I'm saying I don't have any hatred in my
heart for Tyler Perry because he works
hard,
>> but he is a drag queen.
Let's be very honest. A drag queen is
somebody who works in drag.
Do you know who Media is, sir?
That's a [__] in that dress, sir.
That's not nobody's grandmama.
>> This [__] is only funny when he's
playing a [__]
[Applause]
>> I know they're probably going to kick my
ass.
[Applause]
Comedians often say what others won't.
And when it comes to Tyler Perry,
they've said plenty. In a now infamous
2016 BET segment, Cat Williams was asked
to describe Tyler Perry in one word.
Without hesitation, he said drag queen.
It wasn't about Perry's identity, but
the oversized matriarchy plays in wig
and dress. For Cat, it was symbolic of a
larger issue. Black men, he said, being
pushed to play caricatures in order to
succeed. Eight years later in 2024, Cat
doubled down on Shannon Sharp's podcast.
They can't play a man to save their
life. They play good women, he said,
referring to both Perry and Ricky
Smiley. These were not just jokes. They
were grievances from a performer who
felt that dignity had been traded for
dollars and applause. Dave Chappelle,
never one to shy away from controversy,
offered a more measured view in a 2014
GQ interview. While he doesn't celebrate
Perry's artistic choices, he respects
his audience. I'm glad Spikeley exists
and I'm glad Tyler exists. He said,
"Black people aren't a monolith." Still,
even Dave acknowledged that Perry's
portrayals can veer into dangerous
territory, reinforcing stereotypes under
the banner of success. So, is Perry
liberating black comedy or locking it in
place? For every voice applauding him,
another wonders at what cost?
Hello, Robert. We're so glad you decided
to join us. Come in.
>> I don't mind if I do. Cupcakes.
>> Hello. How do you do? We're so glad you
joined our crew. Welcome to our lovely
compound
where it all goes down. Hot boil bananas
and cream white unicorns and wet
rainbow. So it makes me want to scream.
Anything is possible with Jesus on our
team.
Jesus gave me a vision to make dress
like women.
I know you have but I'm all man. Trust
me we can switch position.
Wow. That in the place?
>> No, we just do that for fun. Come, let
me show you the compound.
>> Going to be knocking at your door. I
said knocking at your door. I said
knocking at your door. I said that
[Applause]
[Music]
the hair down looking like a rusty AP
cheerleader. Sit down.
>> Think I know Taekwond do
>> and I know your off. Come on. Bring it
on. You don't know from the project
now. Come out. What the hell is your
problem? Come out. Shut up. Shut up.
Oh, hell no.
>> Yeah, you keep running.
>> What? Now you ask me questions. You
begging her.
>> Oh, please do it. Please hit her.
Please. I want to see you do it. The
hell wrong with you?
>> Hello, my dear. Yes.
>> C word.
>> Yes, ma'am.
>> Where the hell you at?
>> I'm still at the hair salon.
>> What the hell are you doing at the
hairdresser? You've been there 5 hours.
Your hair ain't but an inch and a half
long. What the hell they doing to you?
>> I'm coming. I'm just trying to Can I
have some me time, please? You needed
some what?
>> Some me time.
>> Some what?
>> Some me time. Some time for myself.
>> Cory.
>> Yes, ma'am.
>> Did I ever ask you for some me time,
Cory?
>> No, ma'am.
>> Did I ask you for some me time when I
had to get up every four hours and cook
for you up until your time you were 17
years old?
>> No, ma'am. You don't.
>> Did I ask you for some me time when I
had to hit that stripper pole every
night trying to bring some money into
this house? Did I ask you for some me
time then?
>> No, ma'am. No. All them old men up there
trying to make it drizzle cuz they
showing the hell I couldn't make it
rain. What the hell is me time?
>> I'm just taking care of myself. That's
what I'm doing. Getting some me time.
>> Time for nothing. I'm going to the
store. Hell, I don't need you to I'm a
grown ass woman. I'm going to go to the
store myself.
>> You can't go to the store.
>> You're not supposed to be driving. I'll
be there soon. Okay.
>> Who the hell you think you talking to?
Telling me I can't drive. If I feel like
driving, I'm driving.
>> You can't drive.
>> Get the hell out.
>> You get in that car. You going down. I
mean, I've been playing around. You
going down. Now you understand.
>> I'll be glad when you go down down to
the graveyard and become some maggot
food. Hell, I'm grown. I'm hungry. What
I'm supposed to do? Just sit up in this
house?
>> You can miss a few meals. One or two,
three or seven, nine or 11.
>> Keep it up, Joe. Keep it up.
>> Oh, them people call. Them people call
everybody. You ain't got to worry about
no food. You can call them. They say
they bring it down here and tell you.
>> What the hell are you talking about,
Joe? Stop smoking that weed. What the
hell you talking about? You're crazy as
hell.
>> And they say they give you three meals a
day and uh and they'll give you a
percentage of the peoples who come
through and pay.
>> Where? Why they feed you that much?
>> One of the whales died. They need
another whale at the aquarium. Go on
down there and swim around for him.
>> You rusty old bastard. You farting dust
come out. Go to hell.
>> Dead man walking walking the green mile
getting with Jason. I'm going to walk
the green mile.
bag up some and see I've been back there
on that wash and so I told him I said
but you don't want it to get back there
on that wash cuz if I put it in fifth
gear back there on that wash it's just
going to be shar
I'm trying to find a small of your back
>> Perry's storytelling style is distinct
some would say repetitive media is the
loud nononsense elder who slaps wisdom
into the next generation but when the
slap that becomes the central theme.
People start to wonder whether something
is missing. Critics argue that Perry's
universe rarely explores joy, ambition,
or complexity beyond pain. His worlds
are often filled with abuse, betrayal,
and moral redemption, but seldom with
growth, evolution, or nuance. Pulitzer
Prize winner Michael R. Jackson said it
best in a strange loop, where a
character rants about Perry's work as
crap that's treated as the end all beall
of black art. It was a theatrical gut
punch and one rooted in a deep
frustration many young black artists
feel. If Perry's lens is the only one
Hollywood funds, then diverse black
voices are being filtered through one
man's trauma. Even Kiki Palmer, a known
Perry defender, admitted in 2024, "Tyler
is not the gatekeeper of all black
stories. The enemy isn't Tyler, it's the
system." But can both be true?
>> Now, to Tyler Perry's credit, Tyler
Perry called us up, right? And he said,
"I can see the pain in you and I can
hear it and I want to let you know that
I I I would never do nothing to hurt
you." But the conversation kept going on
only for Tyler Perry to admit he did
start a rumor that I was difficult to
work with. He lied. Only for Tyler Perry
to admit I was wrong. And when my movie
Boo come out,
I'm going to say that right now. Here's
where when you did that interview with
Cat, I could respect how you do it
because Cat said, "You let them people
lie in your face and your response was,
Cat, I don't know if they're lying or
not."
>> Right.
>> Because I can only take them at their
word.
>> At their word.
>> Right.
>> Yes.
>> Well, we sent you the audio of Tyler
Perry. I don't want you to take me at my
word. I want you to hear his words. And
what did you hear that man saying? What
did you hear that man saying?
>> He said it.
>> What did he say?
>> Is that Is
you know you're not supposed to be
recording people.
>> No. No. No. No. Let me back up. Okay.
Everything we did was legal. And here's
where black woman really gets the kick
in the ass. Had I not recorded Tyler
Perry, then it would have been my word
against his. And then on top of that, it
would have been he's so powerful, we
can't even pay no attention to that,
>> right?
>> Well, now I have him on audio, which is
legal to do where we live,
>> right?
>> Okay.
>> We have him on audio. And do you know
what some people then said?
>> Why would you record him?
>> Just like you sat there and said, you
know what's unle, but did you hear what
the man said? I violated you. I
mistreated you. Do you know, Shannon,
that's cost my family tens of millions
of dollars?
>> Yeah.
>> Over a lie and a rumor.
>> Is he going is he going to make he's
going to compensate you for that?
>> I want you to look in your camera.
>> Yes.
>> And I want you to talk to Tyler Perry
because you heard what that man said. So
ask him, will he compensate my family
for that?
>> Tyler, will you come on Club Shay and
let's have a conversation about the fair
compensation for what transpired between
you and Mo'Nique? You can sit right here
as she's sitting right here and you and
I can have a conversation
>> and we'll do you one better. And give me
five on that, baby. We'll do you one
better, Shay. My husband and I'll sit
right next to him.
>> In Hollywood, staying silent can keep
you working. Speaking up can get you
blacklisted, especially when you
challenge someone with power. Mo'Nique's
struggle is well known. After calling
out Oprah and Perry for what she saw as
unfair treatment, she was branded
difficult, ungrateful, even crazy. She
says she was quietly punished. Gigs
disappeared. Calls stopped coming.
>> The cast and crew of my plays are like
family. We work together, eat together,
pray together. Now, let me show you
where you'll be staying.
>> Uh, did you say staying?
>> Oh, yes. You'll live here at the
compound during the run of the play. I
want everyone totally immersed in the
production.
And we don't allow outside calls here.
We must remove all distractions.
>> Oh, just my grandkids. You know, kids,
they always want to talk to their sole
legal guardian.
>> Tell them you won't be coming home for a
while. Best to make it a clean break.
Uh, I'll just call them back. Answer it.
>> Hey, boys.
>> Hey, Granddad. We were just wondering
how late rehearsal was going to go. Tom
had to leave and we're getting kind of
hungry.
>> Well, uh, I'm not coming home for a
while, so don't wait up.
>> How late?
>> Uh, maybe a week or two or more. We got
a lot of rehearsal stuff to do. Uh,
there's some cash in my sock drawer.
Praise Jesus.
This is a great day, brothers and
sisters. The first day of rehearsals for
More Dukes finds herself a man.
>> Let us pray. Lord Jesus, you are a
wonderful savior and an excellent
producing partner as well.
>> I can't believe I'm here. I made it. I'm
on my way to the top. I might already be
at the top.
>> Man, look at these brawls in here. the
big old zesty chesty on that one.
>> In Jesus's name we pray. Amen.
>> You know, when you're a guy that
generates money,
>> Yeah.
>> people have a vested interest in
controlling.
>> Isn't it just unfortunate that while
people like Tyler Perry are the ones who
are supposed to be helping others, they
are the ones being accused of destroying
black entertainers. Well, people like
Dave Chappelle and Cat Williams have
been spilling about this for years. And
it always happens around a time in their
career where it seems as though they're
crossing over next plateau.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> And we're not going to be nobody's
favorite and we're going to miss out on
a lot of the things that they're going
to get over there because we're not like
them and we don't do what they do. We're
not willing to do the things they're
willing to do.
>> I mean, I have personally heard a couple
of stories about how Tyler Perry is a
power- hungry man who would do anything
to have his way. For instance, Brandon
Jay went viral on Tik Tok after posting
a video exposing Tyler Perry for
pressuring him into playing a gay
character. Brandon was cast in Tyler
Perry's sitcom Meet the Browns. But
according to Brandon, Tyler Perry
decided to make lastminute changes to
the script, not considering that they
were expected to film the entire episode
in a day.
>> Mr. Perry comes in, everything changes.
So, we literally run the entire episode
for him and he hates it. Does that mean
I have to learn a whole new script? Yes,
that's what I mean.
>> And that wasn't even the worst part. The
shock came when Tyler Perry told him
that his character would be gay and have
a crush on the person who made his life
in high school miserable.
>> Mr. Perry on the spot starts rewriting
the entire script. And he's feeding me
the lines to say, and the director is
kind of standing on the side like, "You
better do it because if not, they will
fire you." Here is where the shoe hit
the fan. So, in the middle of Mr. Perry
changing up the scenes, he says, "You
know, I want Jeffree to be gay and he
has a crush on his bully. That's not
what I auditioned for.
>> So, this is just one person who was bold
enough to tell their story. Now, imagine
what other cast and crew members have to
go through while being expected to film
an entire episode in a day. Come to
think of it, no wonder many of his
productions always seem to be rushed
with mistakes here and there. Also,
Tyler Perry has also been called out for
devaluing black women's education status
and any related claims of entitlement.
It's like he always has an agenda of
sending the message that educated,
successful black women automatically
have a bitter, demanding, and unworthy
disposition.
>> Um, I don't know if Tyler Perry doesn't
like black women or doesn't give a damn
about black women or thinks he knows
black women, but these story lines that
he's concocting that's supposed to be
the story of black women are so idiotic.
I cannot take it anymore. When it comes
to men, Tyler also portrays the
successful black man as evil and/or
having no desire for the successful
black woman. Just look at Diary of a Mad
Black Woman, for instance, where the
black woman married to the successful
black attorney is physically and
verbally mistreated and ultimately
chased out of her home and replaced by a
white woman. The successful black man is
naturally evil and hateful. In Daddy's
Little Girls, the lead black woman is a
highly successful and beautiful black
woman, but with a bad attitude and no
man. And when she finds love, she finds
it in her limo driver. The same also
happens in The Family That Praise, where
the lead black woman is again a highly
successful Ivy League educated VP of a
company, and she's married to a
construction worker, but ends up having
an affair with her white boss. Even in I
can do bad all by myself, the lead black
woman finds love in the form of a
jobless immigrant who lives in her
basement. And if you watched the halves
and the have nots, you probably noticed
that people were taken advantage of a
bit too much. I mean, Wyatt's character
was molested when he was younger. And
then the same thing happened in prison.
His sister, Hannah, Candace, Jeffrey all
went through the same thing. And let me
not even begin with the media movies
with all the problematic plot points or
the colorism in many of Tyler Perry's
productions. Allegedly, when Tyler Perry
is not degrading black men and women in
his productions, he is doing it to them
in real life in collaboration with other
Hollywood elites. And that is how he is
able to survive in these streets. Well,
if you ask Dave Chappelle and Cat
Williams, Mo'Nique is one of those
people Tyler Perry did dirty together
with Oprah.
>> When you don't do what we ask you to do,
>> we'll take your livelihood. So for eight
years, for eight years my family has
suffered and my career has suffered
because what I would not allow those
entities to do was bully me.
>> What happened was that Mo'Nique signed
on to do the movie Precious with Lee
Daniels. Then Tyler Perry and Oprah got
involved and became executive producers
of the movie. Mo'Nique said that the
movie had been filmed and as far as she
was concerned, she'd fulfilled her
contractual agreements. However,
according to her, Tyler Perry, Oprah,
and Lee Daniels wanted her to attend the
festivals, awards ceremonies, and events
linked to Precious. But she said she
wasn't going to work for free. And
because of that, she was labeled
difficult to work with and black balled
in Hollywood. In fact, Dave himself has
been a victim of the sick ways
orchestrated by the likes of Tyler
Perry. And for those who recall, he left
the production of season 3 of
Chappelle's show and took a trip to
South Africa. And soon after there were
claims about him being mentally unstable
and on drugs. Well, Dave repeatedly
denied those claims and said at the
time, "I'm not crazy. I'm not smoking
crack. I'm definitely stressed out."
There were things that overwhelmed me,
but not in the way that people are
saying. He actually said the same thing
to Oprah, which was a huge mistake
considering Oprah and Tyler Perry are
cut from the same cloth, and Oprah only
tried to make Dave look crazier.
>> Would you say you lost your mind? Sort
of.
No,
>> no,
>> not exactly.
>> Okay.
>> Uh, I wasn't crazy, but it it's
incredibly stressful.
>> And can I just mention how Tyler Perry
is one of those who has championed for
effeminating black men allegedly.
>> But certain dots, like when I see that
they put every black man in the movies
in a dress at some point in their
career, I'll be connecting a dot.
>> Okay. Cat Williams was once asked about
how black actors are being forced to
wear dresses on screen in reference to
how Kevin Hart wore a dress on SNL.
>> The new pope is 9-year-old Oscar nominee
convention Wallace.
>> Wow.
>> Wow. Wow. Wow. I I don't think anyone
saw this one coming. According to Cat,
at least Kevin didn't have to worry
because people like Tyler Perry paved
that way.
>> At the end of the day, Kevin doesn't
have to worry about what people are
going to say about him wearing a dress
because of the long line of dressw
wearing people before him. So now we had
Big Mama's House one, two, and three.
>> I've never seen media in a pants suit.
Cat has even said before that probably
the reason why people like him and Dave
Chappelle are not making it like other
entertainers is because they refused to
bow and join secret societies.
>> Some of us are against the Illuminati
and we are against the Illuminati at our
own detriment.
>> When people are against the Illuminati,
then they get punched in the face all
the time. The press hates them and
nobody likes them.
>> Brandon J. Ellis, a rising actor and
singer, described being pressured into
uncomfortable situations and warned
about crossing lines. Writer Terry Brown
Jackson said she helped write over a 100
episodes, but was cut loose the moment
she asked for what the union promised.
Good enough to create the show, she
said, but not good enough to be
protected by it. Derek Dixon's lawsuit
paints the darkest picture yet, alleging
not only harassment, but a culture of
fear and coercion. According to Dixon,
even raising concerns about his contract
led to veiled threats. Whether these
claims prove true in court or not, they
raise a deeper issue. What happens when
one man becomes the pipeline for black
opportunity? If Perry is the gate, then
who watches the gatekeeper?
>> We're so happy you're here with us,
Robert. Jesus is so good. I've been
working with Mr. Jerome for nearly 10
years.
>> Oh, your family must be very proud of
>> honey. I don't talk to my family
anymore. This is my family now. Soon
it'll be yours, too. I'm going to get me
some Kool-Aid.
>> Well, this is my first Winston Jerome
project, but I've been in the business
for almost 12 years.
>> Well, that's nice. Anything I might have
seen?
>> Let's see. I was in Do the Tight Thing,
uh, Lady Sucks the Blues, New Crack
City, and then my last film was Six
Dicks of Separation.
>> Oh my. Six.
>> But that was before Winston saved me.
All that time I was giving up the ass
for me. Now I only give up the ass for
Jesus and his homeboys.
>> Mhm.
Praise Jesus in the name of Jesus.
Robert, would you join me in my study?
Beautiful, isn't it? I had the sweater
put on him because he just looks so cold
up there. I just wanted to warm him up
because I love Jesus. Do you love Jesus,
Robert?
>> Oh, yes. I love me some Jesus.
>> Mhm. He's my co-pilot.
Lord, we thank you for
>> Well, it appears you love tatas, too.
>> Yeah. Uh, I'm uh
>> It's okay, Robert. You love women more
than you love Jesus, don't you?
>> It's hard to say. I mean, it's kind of
apples and oranges.
>> If women are what you desire, Robert,
then Jesus and I will deliver. Hundreds,
thousands of women, any kind you want.
Well, now since you put it like that, I
want some of them Lisa Keys and covered
in Beyonce and something Spanish and a
big old kitty white woman that look like
Linda Carter. Then Jesus will provide
them. But you must give yourself to
Jesus first, Robert, and to me.
>> You know how I feel about the [__]
phone. Jesus Christ.
>> It's my grandkid. They probably just
worried.
>> You must choose, Robert, between your
old life and your new one.
>> Hey, boys. Uh, no. Everything's good.
Look, please don't call me again. This
is my family now. Uh-huh. Okay.
>> You made the right choice, Robert.
>> I don't get it. They is new family now.
It's worse than I thought. Granddad's in
a cult. A cult? That's gay. Well, he's
in trouble. We got to save him. Come on.
>> Tyler Perry's life is in many ways the
American dream personified. He rose from
poverty to power. He gave work to
hundreds. He told stories Hollywood once
refused to touch. But power is never
neutral. Perry's supporters say he broke
down doors for black creatives. His
critics argue he built a new system
where he alone decides who gets through.
And caught in the middle are the actors,
writers, and fans who once looked to him
as a savior and now wonder if they were
merely stepping stones on his climb. No
story is black and white. Not Perry's.
Not the ones he tells, not the ones told
about him. What's undeniable is this.
Tyler Perry has shaped the future of
black entertainment. Whether that future
is expansive or limiting is the question
we'll be wrestling with for years to
come. And maybe, just maybe, it's a
question he'll have to wrestle with,
too.
>> You're just a lowly excon and I'm a big
shot lawyer.
>> Cut. Frown. How are they going to know
you're mad if you don't frown? More.
More. More. Damn it. You want me to put
something nasty in your mouth to help
you frown?
>> Okay, continue.
Well, at least I have Jesus and a strong
love of a black African beautiful
independent black woman. Cut cut. This
isn't working. I cannot work like this
anymore. I've worked with Jesus.
>> Damn it, Chickf.
>> Let us pray. Jesus. Holy Jesus, help us
with this scene. It seems to be a little
flat. Wait, Jesus is trying to tell me
something. Hold on.
>> Praise Jesus.
>> Yes, Jesus. Uh-huh. Right. died. You're
the boss.
>> Jesus says the scene would have more
impact if you grabbed the M dukes and
kissed her deep on the lips. Kiss. Hold
on. Jesus said that.
>> Jesus said that we need to kiss
passionately so the audience can feel
our love. Change it in the script.
>> Jesus rewrites.
>> Are you sure he didn't say kick? I
should kick you or maybe kill. Let me
kill you. Nobody ever see that coming.
>> No, he said kiss. Kiss. There was no
ambiguity at all. Chapstick.
Robert, it's okay. I totally understand
your concerns. Winston Jerome would
never ever kiss a man. That would be
homosexual and against my Christian
faith.
>> Exactly. Mine, too.
>> But Jesus wants us to be actors first
and heterosexual second. Now, Winston
Jerome is a very, very straight man that
loves the ladies. But Marduk is a woman.
And when I go on stage, Jesus wants me
to become her inside and out. Can't just
have a woman's clothes. I need a woman's
thoughts. a woman's movements and a
woman's desires.
>> Then there is the pause episode which
features uh well stars a character named
Winston Jerome.
>> Yes.
>> Who is very lightly veiled as Tyler
Perry.
>> Yes.
>> Winston Jerome is a closeted
cross-dressing cult leader whose love of
the Christian faith is a mass for his
true sexuality.
That's the way it was described.
>> Yeah. That that's that's all.
>> It's a fair fair description.
>> Yeah.
>> From what I understand, Tyler Perry was
furious over this. Furious?
>> Yeah, that's what I heard.
>> Yeah.
>> Have you ever run into Tyler Perry in
any capacity?
>> I haven't. Um
>> I assume you haven't gotten hired for
any Tyler Perry movies.
>> No, but there was a time one time I was
in Atlanta and um Michael J. White, who
you know I've worked with on Black
Dynamite, he was he was uh shooting
something for Tyler and he was like um
he Oh, you're in Atlanta. you should
come by the set. And then I was like,
"All right, cool." And then we got off
the phone. He called me back and he h
second thought.
I forgot about that. He's He's still,
"No, don't come by the set." I was like,
"All right, I understand."
But but what's funny about that episode
is
so originally his the character's name
was Tyler Perry and he looked exactly
like Tyler Perry and that was the rare
moment where Doll Swim was like, "You
can't do that." You know what I mean?
Like they were they they did they were
they were being the responsible dope.
They said you can't use Tyler Perry's
name. You can't make it look like Tyler
Perry. And then so we found another
name, right? It was actually his real
name and we got it under the radar for
>> Well, his real name is Wizard Jerome.
>> No, no, it was another name. I don't
remember what it was, but we found out
his real name and we and we and we so we
changed the script and then Adult Swim
got it and they they they didn't flag
it. So it was
>> Em EMTT Perry Jr.
>> That's Well, it wasn't. So we we used
Emtt Perry. Okay.
>> I think I think it was EMTT. Yeah, it
was EMTT Perry.
>> So it got under the radar and then about
two weeks later they caught it, right?
And that's when they called us kind of
like screaming at us like, "Yo, for
real, like no bullshit." Like you can't
do that. Don't try to play no [__]
games. Like don't you can't.
>> We're like, "Cool." So we changed it to
Winston Jerome. we made him look
different.
The episode aired and the least at least
the way this was told to us from the
network um he Tyler himself called like
and said you guys better not ever air
that [__] again.
>> You know, at the time he had a lot of
shows at TBS. You know, we were just the
little small black cartoon like Tyler
Perry was God, you know.
Shout out to Tyler Perry, by the way,
because I got I got love for Tyler
Perry, too.
>> My his accomplishments are astronomical,
actually. I mean, you look at what he's
built and so forth. It's too bad you
guys don't work together. But maybe
he'll get over it.
>> I mean, really, I mean, this is what
like 15 years ago. Well, what's funny?
Well, I didn't what I did mention is I
think the one of the reasons why I think
he got really mad is because I think he
thought maybe he had a a leak or a mole
or something because
>> we were putting things that we actually
heard about how he really
conducts some of his business right in
the show, you know, because um Gary
Anthony Williams had auditioned for one
of his films and he made it to like the
second audition. And so Gary was telling
us about all of this stuff that he was
experiencing like the prayer circle, how
they all were like in his prayer circle.
And Gary was talking about how, you
know, he was not engaged in the prayer
at all. Like he was like looking around,
you know, looking at the people in the
circle and stuff like that. And he
didn't get a call back. And and and
usually if you made it to the second
one, you're pretty much in. So he called
one of the other actors. He was like,
"Yo, what happened?" Cuz I made it to
the second one. I got you guys told me
like, "If I make it to the second, I'm
good." And and they were like, "Well,
what happened during the prayer circle?
Were you were you
engaged
>> and and so the the the thinking was that
he might have been recording those
prayer circles
>> and so we put that in the show along
with some other things, little details
and stuff like that. So I think it was a
little too close to home and that might
have really like got him upset, you
know, along with the other [__]
Excuse me. Do you know where I could
find Robert Freeman?
>> Just walk in the path of Jesus. You'll
find him.
>> Uh, excuse me. We're looking for Robert
Freeman.
>> Oh, he's on the rehearsal stage. Y'all
remind me of my grandsons, but they like
ice cube movies, so I can never speak to
them again.
Excuse me. I'm going to get me some
Kool-Aid.
>> Well, at least I have Jesus and the love
of a strong black African beautiful
independent black woman. And that's all
I need.
>> Get away.
>> I rebuke you in the name of the Lord.
Get them.
>> Get them out of here.
>> These nuggets are too glisteny.
[Music]
[Laughter]
>> Did you think you could just take him?
It's too late. Your granddaddy's one of
us now. It's okay, guys. I'm sorry. I'll
take care of it. Me and Jesus want them
out of here. Robert Pronto.
Grandad, snap out of it.
>> Ow. Damn it.
>> Ow.
>> [__] have you lost your goddamn mind?
>> Grandad, you've been brainwashed. You've
been sucked into some bizarre homoerotic
Christian theater cult.
>> Yeah, you was about to kiss that dude.
No homo.
>> Boy, I'm just acting. I know it's a
homoerotic Christian theater cult, but
if it gets me into Hollywood, who cares?
It can't be worse than Scientology.
>> Do you really want to be famous that
bad?
>> Yes. My whole life, I've been normal.
Normal sucks. I want women half my age
to throw themselves at me. I want people
to treat me better than they treat other
people. And Riley was right. I don't
have much time left. Maybe it's a stupid
dream, but this is the last chance I'm
going to get at it. Remember that TV
show Fear Factor when they made people
eat goat rectums and monkey testicles or
whatever else to win the big prize?
Well, this is my Fear Factor. And Mount
Dupus was my monkey testicle, and I
really want the big prize. Even it means
a man. No homo. And when you get home,
go in my clean underwear drawer. There
should be $200 in quarters. That should
be enough to get you through the week.
And I'll be home soon. Okay.
>> All right, Grandad. If this is really
what you want, we'll get out of here.
Good luck with that.
>> Thank you for saying no homo, granddad.
That really meant a lot to me.
No homo.
>> At its core, both the episode and the
lawsuit are about the story of control.
Control over people, control over image,
control over narrative. And it raises a
hard question. In a world where powerful
figures can erase criticism with a phone
call, who gets to speak truth? Aaron
McGrder, the creator of the Boondocs,
has always used satire as a weapon.
Uncomfortable, unflinching, and deeply
necessary. In pause, he didn't just mock
a celebrity. He called attention to a
pattern. One that now appears tragically
to mirror real life. As fans, viewers,
and members of a media consuming world,
we have a responsibility to look beyond
the surface, to question not just the
punchlines, but the power structures
behind them, and to remember that
sometimes the jokes we laugh at are
actually warnings in disguise. Because
when satire starts sounding like
journalism, we have to ask, were we ever
really in on the joke, or were we just
too scared to believe it was true?
>> It's so much bigger than money, though,
Dave. It's so much bigger than money.
>> Oh, no. It was bigger than money. Well,
you know what? I I watched one of these
nature shows one time and they were
talking about how a bush man finds water
when it's scarce
and they do what's called a salt trap. I
I didn't know this. Apparently, baboons
love salt.
>> Okay.
>> So, they put a lump of salt in a hole
and they wait for the baboon. The baboon
comes, sticks his hand in the hole,
grabs the salt, salt makes his hand
bigger, and he's trapped. He can't get
his hand out. Now, if he's smart, all he
does is let go with the salt. Baboon
doesn't want to let go of the salt. Then
the bush man just comes, takes the
baboon, throws him in the cage, and
gives him all the salt he wants. And
then the baboon gets thirsty. The bush
man lets him out the cage. The first
place the baboon runs to is water. Bush
man follows him, and they both drink to
their fill. And in that analogy, I felt
like the baboon. But I was smart enough
to let go of the salt.
>> Isn't that a great analogy?
>> Analogy.
>> I know. He's very very thoughtful and
very very smart.
I use for extra chicken.
>> Finally, I have found my cutie pie and
my duke.
>> Well, at least I have Jesus and the love
of a strong black African beautiful
independent black woman. And that's all
I need. Kiss me, Moose.
[Applause]
And now it's time for me to get my big
prize. Rupees.
>> There you go. My sugar.
Oh,
>> you look just like
me. Oh my goodness.
>> Mr. Jerome would like to see you. alone.
>> Robert, you are amazing. Jesus and I
were so pleased.
>> Don't give me that [__] This is the
big prize. Where the Licia Keys is?
Where are the Beyonce? Where's Wonder
Woman? All I see is Florida Evanses. I
can get a big [__] on my own. I had to
kiss you on stage in front of everybody
and all I get is them mud ducks out
there. That wasn't the deal.
>> Robert Jesus never said it would happen
overnight. Well, how long do I have to
suck lips with you before the women out
there become hot?
>> Look, Robbie, I've just sold Ma Dukes
finds herself a man as a movie. And
guess who's my leading man?
>> Really? I'm going to be in a movie? Oh,
that's right, Bob. And I only have one
request.
Look, man. All [__] aside, can I
please just have some ass?
>> Okay. Wait a minute. You mean to tell me
you made up this whole crossdressing
Christian cult crap just so you can
sleep with men?
>> Uh, pretty much. Yeah.
>> [__] you. Now stick that up your ass.
No homo.
Pause.
Pause again. Pause again. Grandad.
Pause again. Pause again. Pause again.
Grandad.
again, grandad.
[Music]